In this video we’ll explore what built-in
pipes are and how we can use them inside our
application.
Angular provides us with some built-in pipes
that we can easily use inside of our templates.
These include: uppercase, lowercase, decimal,
currency, date and JSON.
Using pipes in our app is pretty easy.
All we need to is add this pipe character
inside of our curly braces and then specify
what type of pipe we want to use.
In this example, we’re using the uppercase
pipe that will then transform our data into
all capital letters when displayed in our
HTML layout.
Lets now explore how to use a few of these
pipes inside of our application.
Opening our DevBooks folder I’ll open up
the BooksList component and make a few adjustments
to our books array.
I’m going to change the price property here
to display a number, add then add a publishedOn
property equaling a new date.
This Date object is native to javascript.
I’m also going to add an inStock property
and set it equal to yes.
Now lets edit our books-list html file.
Now lets start using our builtin pipes.
I’ll start off by adding a pipe next to
this book.price and then use our currency
pipe.
With this pipe we do need to add an additional
property indicating what kind of currency
to use, to do that we’ll add a colon then
specify USD.
In order to display a dollar sign we need
to add another parameter that’s a boolean.
The default is set to False, meaning do not
show a symbol.
We can change that default by setting it to
‘true’.
Next, lets add a pipe to format our publishedOn
property.
To do that, we’ll first specify that we
want to use the date pipe.
And then we’re going to set it to longDate.
And you have different options here when using
this date pipe, you can set it equal to longDate,
shortDate, shortTime, longTime, year as well
as a few others.
To find out more about these different pipe
options you can always google ‘angular 2
date pipes’ then you can click here on this
angular.io link and then right here you’ll
be presented with the different options you
have.
I’m also going to use a pipe to make my
inStock property uppercase.
So I’ll go ahead and add my pipe character
in here, then specify that I want to use the
uppercase pipe which is going to capitalize
the yes string that we’ve defined.
Lets save that and head over to our app and
here you can see that our newly added pipes
are working properly.
If instead we wanted to display Euro dollars
instead of US dollars we can just change USD
to EUR save, refresh our app, and we can see
that the change has been updated within our
application.